Web-Vulnerabilities/OAuth/README.md, before:

# OAuth Authorization Mechanism

## What is OAuth

In its essence OAuth is a standard for resource sharing between various applications (Authorization mechanism).

For example when a user logs in to `example.com` with their `Github` account it is done through `Github`'s OAuth API, which grants `example.com` some access to the users `Github` account.

**The user never gives `example.com` their credentials to `Github`**

OAuth has two versions

- OAuth 1.0 (Legacy)
- OAuth 2.0 (Current Standard)

Version 2.0 was written from scratch, meaning that the difference between these two versions is colosal.
From now on any mention of OAuth is refered to the 2.0 version.

## How Does It Work?

OAuth works by defining a series of interactions between three distinct parties

- The Client Application (`example.com` in this example)
- The Resource Owner (the user)
- The Resource Provider (`Github` in this example)

There are many ways this process can be implemented. These are known as **OAuth flows** or **grant types**

## Grant Types/Flows

There are two most common grant types.

### What Is A Grant Type?

The Grant Type (Flow) defines the exact sequence of steps that are involved in the OAuth process. 

The grant type also affects how the client application interacts with the OAuth provider.

An OAuth service must be configured to support a particular flow before a client application can initiate a corresponding flow. 

The application specifies the prefered flow in the initiating request to the OAuth service.

The two by far most common flows are `authorization code` and `implicit`.

### Authorization Code Grant Type

This grant type is used by confidential and public clients to exchange an authorization code for an access token.

At a high level the flow has the following steps:

- The application opens a browser to send the user to the OAuth server.
- The user sees the authorization prompt and approves the app's request.
- The user is redirected back to the return URL with an authorization code in one of the URL parameters.
- The application exchanges the authorization code for an access token.

### Step 1: Getting the users permission

The application needs to decide which permissions its requesting, then send the user to a browser to get their permission. To begin the authorization flow, the application constructs a URL like the following and opens a browser to that URL.

```
https://authorization-server.com/auth?response_type=code&client_id=123345456567678&redirect_uri=https%3A%2f%2fexample-app.com%2Fcallback&scope=create+delete&state=zsldkjf98230jsd
```

Okay lets understand what each of these parameters do:

- `response_type=code` - This tells the authorization server that the application is initiating the authorization code flow.
- `client_id` - The public identifier for the application, obtained when the developer first registered the application.
- `redirect_uri` - Tells the authorization server where to send the user back to after they approve the request.
- `scope` - One or more space-separated strings indicating which permissios the application is requesting. The specific OAuth API you're using will define the scopes that it supports.
- `state` - The application generates a random string and includes it in the request. It sholuld check that the same value is returned after the user authorizes the app. This is used to prevent CSRF attacks.

### Step 2: Redirection

After the user gives the requested permissions the authorization server redirects the user to the provided `redirect_uri` adding the following URL parameters to the redirect URI:

- `code` - the authorization code generated by the authorization server. This code is usually short lived, around 1-10 minutes depending on the authorization server.
- `state` - the same state string provided by the client application to prevent CSRF and that type of attacks.

### Step 3: Getting the access token

Now the clinet application has an authorization code that it can exchange for an access token.

The application makes a POST request to the service's token endpoint with the following parameters:

- `grant_type=authorization_code` - This tells the token endpoint that the applicaiton is using the Authorization Code grant type.
- `code` - The authorization code given by the OAuth service
- `redirect_uri` - The same redirect URI that was used when requesting the code. Some APIs don't require this parameter, so you'll need to double check the documentation of the particular API you're accessing.
- `client_id` - The application's client ID
- `client_secret` - The application's client secret. This ensures that the request to get the access token is made only from the application, and not from a potential attacker that may have intercepted the authorization code. 
The token endpoint will verigy all the parameters in the request, ensuring the code hasn't expired and that the client ID and secret match. If everything checks out, it will generate an access token and return it in the response.

Example response:

```
HTTP/1.1 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Cache-Control: no-store
Pragma: no-cache


{
    "access_token": "<ACCESS_TOKEN>",
    "token_type": "bearer",
    "expires_in": 3600,
    "refresh_token": "<REFRESH_TOKEN>",
    "scope": "create delete"
}
```

Authorization complete. This is how the authorization code flow works. You can probably already see where can miss-implementation cause some vulnerabilities. I'm not sure how ofter applications implement their own OAuth, but a single verification and validation issue can cause a lot of issues.

There are some other flows that need an explaination, so lets continue.

Commit message:

Added to Web Vulnerabilities: HTTP Request Smuggling

Web-Vulnerabilities/OAuth/README.md, after:

# OAuth Authorization Mechanism

## What is OAuth

In its essence OAuth is a standard for resource sharing between various applications (Authorization mechanism).

For example when a user logs in to `example.com` with their `Github` account it is done through `Github`'s OAuth API, which grants `example.com` some access to the users `Github` account.

**The user never gives `example.com` their credentials to `Github`**

OAuth has two versions

- OAuth 1.0 (Legacy)
- OAuth 2.0 (Current Standard)

Version 2.0 was written from scratch, meaning that the difference between these two versions is colosal.
From now on any mention of OAuth is refered to the 2.0 version.

## How Does It Work?

OAuth works by defining a series of interactions between three distinct parties

- The Client Application (`example.com` in this example)
- The Resource Owner (the user)
- The Resource Provider (`Github` in this example)

There are many ways this process can be implemented. These are known as **OAuth flows** or **grant types**

## Grant Types/Flows

There are two most common grant types.

### What Is A Grant Type?

The Grant Type (Flow) defines the exact sequence of steps that are involved in the OAuth process. 

The grant type also affects how the client application interacts with the OAuth provider.

An OAuth service must be configured to support a particular flow before a client application can initiate a corresponding flow. 

The application specifies the prefered flow in the initiating request to the OAuth service.

The two by far most common flows are `authorization code` and `implicit`.

### Authorization Code Grant Type

This grant type is used by confidential and public clients to exchange an authorization code for an access token.

At a high level the flow has the following steps:

- The application opens a browser to send the user to the OAuth server.
- The user sees the authorization prompt and approves the app's request.
- The user is redirected back to the return URL with an authorization code in one of the URL parameters.
- The application exchanges the authorization code for an access token.

#### Step 1: Getting the users permission

The application needs to decide which permissions its requesting, then send the user to a browser to get their permission. To begin the authorization flow, the application constructs a URL like the following and opens a browser to that URL.

```
https://authorization-server.com/auth?response_type=code&client_id=123345456567678&redirect_uri=https%3A%2f%2fexample-app.com%2Fcallback&scope=create+delete&state=zsldkjf98230jsd
```

Okay lets understand what each of these parameters do:

- `response_type=code` - This tells the authorization server that the application is initiating the authorization code flow.
- `client_id` - The public identifier for the application, obtained when the developer first registered the application.
- `redirect_uri` - Tells the authorization server where to send the user back to after they approve the request.
- `scope` - One or more space-separated strings indicating which permissios the application is requesting. The specific OAuth API you're using will define the scopes that it supports.
- `state` - The application generates a random string and includes it in the request. It sholuld check that the same value is returned after the user authorizes the app. This is used to prevent CSRF attacks.

#### Step 2: Redirection

After the user gives the requested permissions the authorization server redirects the user to the provided `redirect_uri` adding the following URL parameters to the redirect URI:

- `code` - the authorization code generated by the authorization server. This code is usually short lived, around 1-10 minutes depending on the authorization server.
- `state` - the same state string provided by the client application to prevent CSRF and that type of attacks.

#### Step 3: Getting the access token

Now the clinet application has an authorization code that it can exchange for an access token.

The application makes a POST request to the service's token endpoint with the following parameters:

- `grant_type=authorization_code` - This tells the token endpoint that the applicaiton is using the Authorization Code grant type.
- `code` - The authorization code given by the OAuth service
- `redirect_uri` - The same redirect URI that was used when requesting the code. Some APIs don't require this parameter, so you'll need to double check the documentation of the particular API you're accessing.
- `client_id` - The application's client ID
- `client_secret` - The application's client secret. This ensures that the request to get the access token is made only from the application, and not from a potential attacker that may have intercepted the authorization code. 
The token endpoint will verigy all the parameters in the request, ensuring the code hasn't expired and that the client ID and secret match. If everything checks out, it will generate an access token and return it in the response.

Example response:

```
HTTP/1.1 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Cache-Control: no-store
Pragma: no-cache


{
    "access_token": "<ACCESS_TOKEN>",
    "token_type": "bearer",
    "expires_in": 3600,
    "refresh_token": "<REFRESH_TOKEN>",
    "scope": "create delete"
}
```

Authorization complete. This is how the authorization code flow works. You can probably already see where can miss-implementation cause some vulnerabilities. I'm not sure how ofter applications implement their own OAuth, but a single verification and validation issue can cause a lot of issues.

There are some other flows that need an explaination, so lets continue.

### Implicit Grant Type

Implicit grant type is much more simple than the Authorization code grant type.

It just skips the authorization code and directly asks for the access token.

The question is, why not use it everywhere?

Answer is really simple. Getting the access token right away gives room for various attacks.

But what is the reason for less security? Lets see how this flow goes.

- The client application requests user permission.
- After the user grants the permission, the OAuth provider redirects the user to the `redirect_uri` which contains the access token and related parameters in the URL parameters.
- After that the client application extracts the access token and gets the user info, from the OAuth the client application extracts the access token and gets the user info, from the OAuth provider. 

### Identification

So how do we identify which flow does the target application use?

As mentioned in the Authorization Code flow explaination, in **Step 3** the client applicaton includes a `grant_type` parameter to the request. In case of a authorization code, the value is `code` as observed earlier, andi n case of **Implicit**, the value is `token` (it's really straight forward).

## Client Application Vulnerabilities

So as we learned about this whole OAuth thing, it's become obvious that a lot of things can be miss-implemented, as the OAuth framework doesn't really have built in security measures and many security checks are optional (some where discussed, like the `state` URL parameter).
